---
layout: single
title:  "Dart - function, type, object"
categories: ft
tag: [flutter, app]
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

```dart
class Person {
  String name = 'dan';
  int age = 27;
}

num addNumbers(int num1, double num2, num num3) {
  // print(num1 + num2 - num3);
  return num1 + num2;
}

void main() {
  var p1 = Person(); // instantiate the class and store it in p1
  var p2 = Person();
  p2.name = 'Jayden';
  print(p2.name);
  print(p1.name);
  
  var firstResult = addNumbers(1, 2.8, 9.0);
  firstResult = addNumbers(2, 2.1, 4);
  print(firstResult);
  print('Hello!');
}
```

- **main()** : main - first function that is called automatically when app starts / file is loaded

  ​                     () - parenthesis that receives arguments that would be input to the function

- **{}** : executes when the function gets called

- **void** : type , void means 'returns nothing'

- **return** : all output of a function to be called in another function

- **var** :  written when variable is introduced for the first time 

- **class** : define a blueprint for objects. Its name starts with a capital letter. A variable inside a class is called a 'property'. 

  <br>

  ​                   

# Naming convention

* starts with lowercase
* no space between words
* if two different words are joined then first letter of the second word is in uppercase

<br>

# Variable 

```dart
var myAge = 30; 
```

'myAge' is a variable that stores an integer (int) of value 30. It can also be typed as int,

```dart
int myAge = 30;
```

but  Dart has a feature called "type inference". 

If you created the variable with var, Dart is still able to infer that 'myAge' is of type int because you <strong>initialize</strong> the variable (i.e. you assign a value right from the start) with an integer value. 

 if you create a variable without an initial value:

```dart
int myAge;
myAge = 30; 
```

<br>

# Object-oriented

Dart is an object-oriented programming language - that means that <strong>every value</strong> in Dart is an object. Even a simple number. 

Objects are created with the help of <strong>“Classes”</strong> because every object needs a <strong>blueprint</strong> (=> the class) based on which you can then create (“instantiate”) it. 

Here’s an example class definition:

```dart
class Person {
 var name = 'Max';
 var age = 30;
 void greet() {
 print('Hi, I am ' + name + ' and I am ' + age.toString() + ' years old!';
 }
} 
```

In this example, we define a Person class which has two class-level variables (also called “instance fields” or “properties”) and one class-level function (also called “method”). 

